URL: http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/evm-vvpat-paper-receipt-election-commission-cabinet/1/932595.html

Cabinet clears Rs 3,173 crore for Election Commission to buy new EVMs with paper trail
The Cabinet today cleared Rs 3,000 crore for the Election Commission to buy new  Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail (VVPAT) machines.

The Cabinet today cleared the Election Commission's proposal of the Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail (VVPAT) machines. For Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs), the Cabinet has so far cleared Rs 3,173 crore for the Election Commission to buy new voting machines.
The decision comes in the wake of growing demands from opposition parties for holding all future elections using paper trail machines along with EVMs, to clear doubts about votes cast.
The clearance was given by the Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the proposal of "procurement of VVPAT units" after a brief discussion.
Finance Minister Arun Jaitley said, "Amount of Rs 3173 crores have been approved to acquire 16.15 lakh VVPAT machines".
Since June, 2014, the Commission has given at least 11 reminders to the government seeking funds for VVPAT machines.Last year, Chief Election Commissioner Nasim Zaidi had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi drawing his attention to the funds needed for the machines.
The Supreme Court has asked the Commission to give a tentative timeframe by which it can use VVPAT machines in all polling stations.
The EC says two PSUs -- ECIL and BEL -- need 30 months to produce the over 16 lakh VVPATs.
The Bahujan Samaj Party, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Congress had attacked the Election Commission for allegedly using "tampered" EVMs.
The VVPAT is a machine which dispenses a slip with the symbol of the party for which a person has voted for. The slip drops in a box but the voter cannot take it home.
The voters see voter-verifiable paper audit trail slip for seven seconds, which would be an acknowledgement receipt for the party they voted for in the election.