url : http://www.news18.com/news/india/bsf-jawan-tej-bahadur-who-highlighted-govt-apathy-sacked-1377745.html

New Delhi: Border Security Force (BSF) jawan Tej Bahadur Yadav, who had highlighted the poor quality of food served to soldiers through a social media post, has been dismissed from service.
Tej Bahadur was sacked on the basis of a report of a staff court of inquiry (SCoI). The inquiry found the constable-rank jawan guilty of making false charges and gross indiscipline.
The official statement released by BSF held Tej Bahadur guilty of lying about food quality and not adhering to formal grievance redressal mechanism of the force.
BSF official statement accused Tej Bahadur of "Neglect to obey general orders of the force in which he carried two mobile phones while on operational duty against the SOP and also posted photographs in uniform on social media in contravention of instructions."
Tej Bahadur Yadav was serving in the 29th battalion of the force when he shot a mobile video exposing bad quality of daal and roti being served to the force.
He was subsequently transferred to Jammu and his plea for voluntary retirement was also rejected.
BSF officials have maintained that Tej Bahadur's complaint was malicious.
“Will seek legal recourse against this. Will move higher court,” Tej Bahadur told CNN-News18.
His wife, Sharmila Devi told CNN-News18,"We got a call around 12 this afternoon from Tej Bahadur in which he said he has been dismissed and that he is coming home tomorrow. All his pensions and retirement benefits will be stopped now."
Even though some on social media were calling the BSF's decision harsh, the union home ministry Supported BSF. "It is a decision taken at the level of the director general of the force. We will not intervene," a top Mha officer told CNN-News18.
Tej Bahadur's allegations that officers were selling off food meant for jawans, had seen intervention from the Prime Minister's Pffice which had sought a report on the allegations made. BSF in its enquiry has not just dismissed Tej bahadur's allegations but also set a precedent on stringent action against anyone who uses public platforms to air grievances.