url : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/company/corporate-trends/vodafone-idea-mega-merger-heres-everything-you-need-to-know/articleshow/57746946.cms

Vodafone, India's No 2 telecom operator, and Idea, the No 3, yesterday laid the foundation of what is to become India's largest telecom company that will surpass Bharti Airtel. The merger not only has huge impact on the telecom segment but it will have far reaching consequences for consumers in India. 

Here are the must-read articles to give you a lowdown on the merger: 
Anatomy of the blockbuster deal 
Not every day you see such mergers. As emphasised by both the companies, this is quite a complex deal involving consolidation of businesses, transfer of shares, appointing officials and synergising operations. Here's a thorough look at the complex Vodafone-Idea merger deal and the way ahead. 

How it all started 
Rome was not built in a day. Likewise, the mega deal took several months. Infact, the two companies had flirted with the idea in 2016 itself. However, intense talks started January this year. Here is a detailed account of what happened behind the corridors of Idea and Vodafone. 

Vodafone's Indian journey 
It was exactly 10 years back when Vodafone set its foot in India by acquiring Hutchison's 67% stake. Here's a look at the telco's journey in India. Read here. 

It doesn't mean Voda exiting India: Colao 
Vodafone Group PLC CEO Vittorio Colao and Aditya Birla Group Chariman K M Birla spoke to ET soon after the merger announcement. They spoke on a range of issues including Vodafone's tax cases to the new entity's future.

What it means for Vodafone, Idea employees? 
Mergers though sound grand but it often do not go down well for employees of companies. That's why after the Vodafone-Idea merger was announced yesterday, a panic gripped employees of the companies. However, Birla and Colao tried to assuage the fears. Read here. 

Idea Shortchanged? 
As soon as the merger was announced yesterday, Idea's stock jumped over 15% only to close down 9.6% towards the end of Monday as a feeling gripped the market that Vodafone India has shortchanged Idea shareholders. So was it a bad deal for the Idea shareholders. 

Regulatory roadblocks ahead 
But the combined entity will not have a smooth sailing. After the merger, Vodafone-Idea's revenue market share will be around 41% against Bharti Airtel's 36.5%. The combined entity has some regulatory challenges to content with, including cases where its combined share exceeds revenue share and spectrum limits. So what are the regulatory challenges and how the new entity plans to tackle it?