url : http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/yogi-adityanaths-first-month-as-chief-minister-of-uttar-pradesh-highlights/articleshow/58252925.cms

As Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adiyanath completes one month on Wednesday, his government has hit the ground running with several important decisions like farmers' loan waiver, power for all and legislation to cap fees in private schools. Yogi has shown a firm resolve in introducing fundamental changes while performing a balancing act between development and the Hindutva agenda of the BJP. Here's a look at some of his key decisions in the last 30 days:

The ban on legal as well as illegal abattoirs was one of the main agendas of the BJP manifesto in the recently concluded elections. And keeping his word, a day after he took charge as the chief minister, illegal slaughterhouses were sealed in Allahabad and other places across the state.


Following this, several BJP-ruled states followed suit and banned illegal abattoirs, establishing agreement with Adityanath's way of functioning.

Adityanath gave a big relief to small and marginal farmers in the state by waiving farmer loans worth Rs. 36,359 crore.

Anti-Romeo squads were set up in 11 districts of Lucknow zone to prevent eve-teasing. A move that invited wrath of many, the establishment of the security groups inspired Haryana to set up their 'Operation Durga' in the state.



Farmer loans worth Rs. 36,359 crore waived: Adityanath gave a big relief to small and marginal farmers in the state by waiving off farmer loans worth Rs. 36,359 crore.

Adityanath urged all his ministerial colleagues to shun siren and hooters and red beacons atop vehicles.

The chief minister promised to ensure a continuous supply of electricity to rural areas in the state, that would extend up to 18 hours.

Consumption of paan-masala and gutkha in government offices, hospitals and schools was banned.
Push for corruption-free governance
Ministers were told to disclose their incomes and submit the details to the CM secretariat and the BJP office to ensure corruption-free administration. Ministers have been barred from accepting any gift costing more than Rs 5,000, and have also been told to keep a distance from contractors and business entities.

No days off on birth anniversaries of social leaders
Yogi has also shown will to make drastic changes in the work culture by scrapping holidays in the name of the great leaders. The previous Akhilesh Yadav government had announced more than 30 holidays in a year dedicated to great leaders and stressed more workdays in offices and more days of study in schools and colleges.
Lack of political vendetta
Adityanath has shown no signs of unleashing political vendetta against the bureaucracy despite knowing that a good number are committed and inclined to either SP or the BSP, who have ruled in turns in the state for the last 15 years. Adityanath has, including Tuesday's 41 transfers, effected only minimum changes and has reiterated he would establish how the same set of officers can deliver the desired results.
Strong stand on triple talaq
Adityanath's recent remarks about triple talaq have also stirred a positive storm in the state. He had said that those remaining silent are equally responsible as those practising the age-old tradition.



Several Muslim clerics and the people, in general, have rallied behind their Chief Minister after the statement made news for all the right purposes.



In wake of this, Adityanath's ascension to the throne of the state has moved sideways from under the scanner, especially of those who have been accusing the saffron party of playing along divisive lines.