URL: http://www.cbc.ca/news/world/palestinians-in-israeli-prisons-launch-hunger-strike-1.4072823

Hundreds of Palestinians held by Israel launch hunger strike

Hundreds of Palestinians in Israeli prisons launched a hunger strike Monday, in what their leader behind bars called a new step in the Palestinians' "long walk to freedom."

Activists said more than 1,500 of about 6,500 Palestinians held by Israel have joined the open-ended protest and that it was the largest such strike in five years. The hunger strikers' immediate demands included better conditions, including more contact with relatives, and an end to Israel's practice of detentions without trial.

In the West Bank and Gaza, thousands staged solidarity marches Monday to mark Prisoners' Day in the Palestinian territories.

The hunger strike was led by Marwan Barghouti, a prominent figure in Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas' Fatah movement. Over the years, polls have indicated that Barghouti is the most popular choice among Palestinians to succeed the 82-year-old Abbas.

Barghouti was arrested by Israel in 2002 for his role in a violent Palestinian uprising against Israeli occupation and is serving multiple life terms. He is one of the best-known among thousands of Palestinians jailed for charges ranging from stone-throwing and membership in groups outlawed by Israel, to attacks that wounded or killed Israelis.

In an op-ed published in the New York Times, Barghouti wrote that Israeli prisons have become the "cradle of a lasting movement for Palestinian self-determination."

"This new hunger strike will demonstrate once more that the prisoners' movement is the compass that guides our struggle, the struggle for freedom and dignity, the name we have chosen for this new step in our long walk to freedom," he wrote.

The hunger strike was launched as the approaching half-century mark of Israeli rule over Palestinians appeared to generate new interest in the long-running conflict, which in recent years was often overshadowed by war and turmoil elsewhere in the region.

Israel captured the West Bank, Gaza Strip and east Jerusalem in the June 1967 Arab-Israeli war.