url : http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2017/04/08/assad-trying-kill-everyone-survived-chemical-attack-says-resident/

Residents of the Syrian town of Khan Sheikhoun, which on Tuesday suffered one of the deadliest chemical attacks of the war, thought their nightmare was over. 

But they discovered yesterday that President Bashar al-Assad was not finished with them yet.

On Friday night and into Saturday morning, the northern rebel-held town was pummelled once again by Syrian warplanes.

The Sukhoi jets had taken off from al-Shayrat airbase, which just a matter of hours earlier was hit by 59 American Tomahawk cruise missiles, making apparent the limited nature of US President Donald Trump’s intervention.

Aya Fadl spent the night cowering in the basement of her home with her 20-month-old son Najdat. She told the Sunday Telegraph that the town had been hit “many times” by air strikes in the past 48 hours.

“Some landed very close to us, some far away,” said Mrs Fadl, 25, who lost more than 20 members of her family in last week’s attack and is still suffering from the effects of exposure to what is thought to be sarin gas. “We’re so scared, we don’t know whether the next one will be full of chemicals or not so we don’t leave the house.”

She now sleeps in the same room as her husband and son so that in the eventuality their house gets hit at least they will be killed together.

“I was born in Khan Sheikhoun, it is my home,” she said. “But I feel I can’t live here any more, that if I stay I will die.”

Mr Trump had ordered the blistering attack on the base in response to the gassing which left 86 dead and hundreds injured, acting to enforce a "red line" set, and then ignored, by his predecessor Barack Obama.

“Even beautiful babies were cruelly murdered in this very barbaric attack,” he said in an address announcing the news. 'It was a slow and brutal death for so many. No child of God should ever suffer such horror.'”

Mrs Fadl was sleeping when the chemical bombs hit. She worried first for her son, whom she affectionately calls Najoudy. “Where is he, where is he?” she remembers crying out. “He was right next to me but I couldn’t see him, I couldn't see anything, I started to feel terrible because the air was so heavy.  

“My husband said to get outside so I carried Najoudy out to the street. Then a lorry driver stopped us and told us he had many dead people in the back. We looked in and we saw our relatives, all dead. My aunt, my uncle Kareem, my friends, my neighbours, my god,” she says. “I saw them, they were all dead.”

When she heard the news of the strike on Friday she said she was “happy” for a second, but “then we became worried as we knew Assad would look for revenge on us. Now it is like he is trying to kill everyone that survived the chemical attack,” she said.

Monitors had reported that the airfield was badly destroyed by the 1,000lb warheads and that several planes and a runway had been put out of service. However it is thought that an advance warning given by the US to Russia allowed Syria enough time to move many of its aircraft before the raid. 

Syria’s second most-active air base appeared to be back up and running by Friday afternoon.

"Although the strike will further weaken the overall air defence and ground attack capabilities of the (Syrian air force), it will not significantly diminish the ability of the Assad regime to conduct further chemical weapons attacks," said Reed Foster, an analyst at the defense and intelligence publication Jane's.

Many in Khan Sheikhoun the Telegraph spoke to saw the strikes as a slap on the wrist of a dictator that has acted with impunity for years. 

They say they want to see all of Syria’s warplanes ground, not just punitive action against one air base.

“The American attack is a good step, but not enough,” said Abdulhamid al-Youssef, who lost his wife, Dalal, and their nine-month-old twins.

“Now they have hit one airport. But the criminal Assad has more than 20 airports and this (bombing them) is the primary sensible thing that they can do.”

Mr Youssef, Mrs Fadl and others, worry that if something is not done soon the world will quickly move on, like it did the last time the regime gassed its people in 2013 in an attack that left more than 1,000 dead in the suburbs of Damascus. 

“Where is the UN?” Mrs Fadl asked. “Where is the EU? He will do it again and again until someone stops him.”