URL: http://indianexpress.com/article/india/himachal-pradesh-44-killed-in-a-bus-accident-in-shimla-4619295/

Himachal Pradesh: 44 killed in a bus accident in Shimla
Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh who was in Delhi, directed for providing immediate treatment to the injured and relief to the next of the kins.
A total of 44 persons including 10 women and girls, three children and 31 male died in a major road accident in Himachal Pradesh on Wednesday as a private bus from Uttarakhand bound to Tuni in remote area of Chopal (Shimla) skidded off the mountain and plunged into Tons river- the largest tributary of the Yamuna.
Heavy casualty is reported after the bus fell straight into the river, nearly 250 meter down hill. The site is around 200 km from Shimla, the state capital. Bus no is  UK 16 PA 0045 .
“40 bodies have been recovered by the rescue team from the site of the accident and there are reports of two more bodies floating in the river”, said Superintendent of Police (Shimla ) D W Negi.
District Collector (Shimla), Rohan Chand Thakur, said that the conductor of the bus was found. HE added that there were total 46 passengers in the bus put of which only two survived.
Additional Chief Secretary (Disaster management) Tarun Shridhar said that as per the report, the casualty is very high. Deputy Commissioner, Shimla, Rohan Chand Thakur immediately reached the spot after hearing about the accident.The rescue and relief operation was led by Sub-divisional Magistrate Chopal alongwith locals, police and government medical teams. The exact cause of the accident was not immediately known.
This was the biggest and horrifying accident in the area. Shridhar said his counterpart from Uttarakhand government also spoke over phone and sought help in providing medical care to the survivers .
Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh who was in Delhi, directed for providing immediate treatment to the injured and relief to the next of the kins who survived .
“Bus conductor is also among the survivers. Nearly 12 persons hailing from Himachal Pradesh were also identified”, said Negi.