url : http://www.thehindu.com/news/international/vijay-mallya-arrested-in-london-say-sources/article18106159.ece

Businessman Vijay Mallya was arrested in London on Tuesday morning but released on bail a few hours later. The next hearing is on May 17.

“Officers from the Metropolitan Police’s Extradition Unit have this morning, Tuesday 19 April arrested a man on an extradition warrant,” said the Scotland Yard in a statement, adding that he was arrested on behalf of the Indian authorities in relation to accusations of fraud.

“He was arrested after attending a central London police station and will appear at Westminster Magistrates’ Court later today,” the statement said.

Tweeting that the issue was a media hype, Mr. Mallya said,"Extradition hearing in Court started today as expected"

India began formal proceedings to extradite Mr. Mallya, who is wanted in connection with a number of charges, including defaulting on payment of loans amounting to Rs 9,000 crore earlier this year, with papers being handed over in New Delhi and London. While there is an acknowledgment that the extradition is up to the U.K. court system, sources had said that they believed there was also political will to support the process.

While no one had been extradited to India in the first 23 years of the India-UK Extradition Treaty of 1993, Britain last year extradited Samirbhai Vinubhai Patel, who was wanted by India in relation to the 2002 Gujarat riots, leading to hopes of future successful extradition requests.

During his visit to London earlier this year, Finance Minister Arun Jaitley highlighted the seriousness with which India took the issue of defaulters, without direct reference to Mr. Mallya. The issue is also understood to have figured in discussions he had with Prime Minister Theresa May and Chancellor of the Exchequer Philip Hammond.

In January last, a CBI court issued a non-bailable warrant against Mr. Mallya in the Rs. 720 crore IDBI Bank loan default case. Mr. Mallya, whose now defunct Kingfisher Airlines owes more than Rs 9,000 crore to various banks, fled India on March 2, 2016.

Mr. Mallya, declared a wilful defaulter by banks, including the State Bank of India, had unsuccessfully offered the consortium of lenders an initial settlement of ₹4,000 crore, out of Kingfisher Airlines’ total dues of about ₹9,000 crore. 

